//source 1
Passage II

LITERARY NARRATIVE: Passage A is adapted from the short story “All the Flowers in the Air” by Aarti Monteiro (©2021 by Kweli Journal, Inc.). Passage B is adapted from the novel Central Places by Delia Cai (©2023 by Delia Cai).

Passage A by Aarti Monteiro

     With one more day in Bombay, Rani decided to
visit her old neighborhood. She followed the route to
the train station Siya had laid out and bought a ticket.
She snaked her way through the crowded platform and
(5)	stopped at a group of women. The long train staggered
into view and the crowd pushed to the edge of the plat‐
form. Rani felt her heart pulse, anxious about being left
behind. Before the train stopped completely, the women
hoisted themselves up and pushed Rani along with
(10)	them.
     The train didn't have doors so she gripped the
sticky railing as tightly as she could. Warm air blew
through the car as it crept forward. She watched the
homes and trees as they passed. She'd always found
(15)	comfort in the anonymity of cities, how no one noticed
you nor cared whether or not you belonged. In this way
Bombay reminded her of New York—it wouldn't wel‐
come you but it didn't mind that you were there.
     Rani had barely seen the Lower Parel sign before
(20)	the current of people pushed her off. She stepped into a
narrow vegetable market beneath the tracks. She knew
she looked like a tourist but snapped photos anyway: a
pile of drying chilies, plump green peppers, flowers
strung together. The sellers called after her but she
(25)	couldn't understand what they said and kept walking.
     She glanced at her phone to see the directions to
the building. She walked up a hill, each curve a current
moving her closer to her home until she finally stopped
at her old street corner. A high‐rise stood in place of the
(30)	small building where they'd lived. Scaffolding blew in
the hot wind and the gate was covered in dust. Rani
could feel something tangle inside her like weeds. She
used to play foursquare in the parking lot with the
neighborhood kids, walk to the small corner shop with
(35)	her brother—in matching blue and white school uni‐
forms—to buy candy. She waited, as if the building
would turn back into the home she remembered if she
was just there long enough. She took a photograph of
the grey scaffolding against the bright sky. A passerby
(40)	looked at where her camera pointed and mumbled
something Rani couldn't understand.
     She quickly moved the camera back into her bag,
the sun beating down on her. When she was a child, she
belonged to the city in a way she never had to think
(45)	about. The disappointment of returning home is the
burden of anyone who leaves.
Passage B by Delia Cai

The narrator has just arrived with her fiancé, Ben, to visit her parents, and they've stopped at a grocery store on the way home.

     Inside the H Mart, the instant confrontation with
ninety thousand square feet of food laid out under a
battery of flashing screens and fluorescent bulbs and
(50)	plastic holly makes me want to stop and massage my
temples a little. Ben snaps a few pictures. My dad
observes Ben with a bemused expression. “He's very
good,” my dad remarks to me, as if he can tell just by
the way that Ben glides through the produce aisle, even
(55)	though I am sure that Ben is the first photographer, and
journalist, and photojournalist, that my dad has ever
met in his entire life. I take the shopping cart from my
dad and follow him around as he gradually loses inter‐
est in watching Ben and then revs into grocery mode,
(60)	picking out crates of Asian pears and fat persimmons
and twelve whole cartons of the soft tofu on sale for
ninety‐nine cents each. Ben takes a few pictures of
a bin overflowing with bok choy before putting his
camera away, which I'm relieved about.
(65)	      “It's a lot,” I apologize as my dad bobs ahead of us
in the produce aisles. I think about what else I should
preemptively say that I'm sorry for, amid the strange‐
ness of trailing after my dad in this random Chicago
suburb H Mart, but Ben squeezes my hand and tells me
(70)	to stop.
      “You're so stressed out.” He chuckles, and ordi‐
narily this would be all it takes to make me roll my eyes
and nod along, but I'm watching my dad closely so we
don't lose him in the soy sauce aisle. “Breathe,” Ben
(75)	reminds me. “Everything is going great, okay?”
     He takes the cart from me and gestures for me to
climb onto the end. I want to humor him, so I do, and
he steers the cart past rows of Spam and cellophane
noodles, his eyes softening with satisfaction as I try to
(80)	tell him to slow down but start laughing instead. Maybe
this was a good idea, bringing my chronically starry‐
eyed fiancé home. If anyone could handle this trip, it
was going to be Ben, Mr. Up for Whatever, and as long
as I had him with me, that made me the soon‐to‐be
(85)	Mrs. Up for Whatever. And that meant I was truly
coming back to this place as a different person than the
one who left. How stupid it was to worry about Ben on
this trip when being slightly out of place, I realize, has
always been his natural element.


(1) It can reasonably be inferred that the author of Passage A uses the metaphors “current of people” (line 20) and “each curve a current” (line 27) primarily to:
(2) As it is used in Passage A, the phrase “laid out” (line 3) most nearly means:
(3) In Passage B, compared to the narrator, the narrator's father is characterized as being more focused on:
(4) In Passage B, the narrator's thoughts in response to her father's remark about Ben's photography most nearly suggest that the narrator is:
(5) As it is used in Passage B, the phrase “chronically starry-eyed” (lines 81–82) most nearly means that Ben:
(6) The passages are structurally similar in that both mainly:
(7) Which of the following statements best captures a difference in the way the passages explore the themes of home and belonging?
(8) It can most reasonably be inferred from the passages that compared to the narrator of Passage B, Rani in Passage A would be more likely to describe her experience of visiting her former home as:
(9) Which of the following statements best describes how the tone of the last paragraph of Passage A (lines 42–46) compares to the tone of the last paragraph of Passage B (lines 76–89)?

//Source 2 
Passage III

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the article “Look Up and See!” by Robert O. Paxton.

     New York is a particularly “birdy” city (to use the
birder's term). Someone who makes a serious effort to
find birds in the city almost every day—there are such
people—can find upward of three hundred species in
(5)	one year without ever leaving the city limits, using only
public transportation. The cumulative bird list of Cen‐
tral Park alone includes over 280 species, some of
which, to be sure, appear only occasionally. Like
Boston or San Francisco, New York has rich bird life
(10)	because it has extensive parkland, because it is close to
the sea (which adds marsh and beach to the mix of hab‐
itats), and because the city now protects certain places
where birds congregate, like tern colonies and heron‐
ries, even at some inconvenience to humans.
(15)	     Bird life is constantly changing in New York City.
We may assume that the marshy island that the first
European settlers encountered in the early seventeenth
century thronged with ducks, geese, herons, and other
conspicuous water birds that were soon consumed or
(20)	chased off as the city arose. But change did not stop
when the city became fully built. New York City's bird
life has been altered in interesting ways in just the past
fifty years.
     More different kinds of birds nest in New York
(25)	City now than did fifty years ago, although those that
just pass through may not be as numerous. The breed‐
ing bird population of New York City does not simply
replicate that of the nearby countryside, however. Some
birds survive very well in the city, while others stay
(30)	away. Ecologists classify natural species according to
their response to urban environments: as exploiters,
adapters, or avoiders.
     Exploiters positively thrive in the thick of the city.
Untroubled by human presence, they roost on our roofs,
(35)	nest in our eaves, and eat our trash. The exploiting
birds that are most conspicuous in New York City—
European starlings, house sparrows, rock pigeons (the
proper name of the common street pigeon), mallard
ducks, and Canada geese—are also abundant in many
(40)	other cities across the world. Quick to colonize any
denatured landscape, they are “tramps easily dispersing
across our world,” writes the ecologist John Marzluff.
“If they were plants, we could call them weeds.” They
point toward a homogenized future in which one will
(45)	see the same tough, streetwise birds in any city in the
world.
     All of these species, along with mute swans, were
spread by human introduction. Two more recent intro‐
ductions may produce new exploiters. A bird importer
(50)	about to be charged with illegal trade in native birds
released some house finches, a small, wine‐colored bird
native to California, at Idlewild Airport (now JFK) in
1940. They bred, flourished, and are now ubiquitous,
not only in New York City but throughout eastern
(55)	North America. House finch numbers have recently
been reduced by an eye disease, reminding us that epi‐
demics are one of the risks faced by exploiters.
     Parrots are another new exploiter group. Escaped
or released pet parrots are common in cities worldwide,
(60)	but only monk parakeets, native to temperate Argentina
and capable of surviving a northern winter, have estab‐
lished permanent populations in New York City. These
bright green parrots with gray monks' hoods have
become a nuisance to Con Edison by choosing trans‐
(65)	formers for their enormous collective nests.
     Fortunately for New Yorkers who enjoy variety in
bird life, a number of adapter species, to continue with
the ecologists' categories, have recently moved to the
city. Even some birds usually wary of humans have
(70)	learned that life is possible, even advantageous, here. In
1992, a red‐tailed hawk, soon to be famous as “Pale
Male,” established his bulky stick nest on the façade of
an apartment building on Fifth Avenue. He seems to
have been the first of his species to set up housekeeping
(75)	on a building instead of a cliff or tree. By 2007,
thirty‐two pairs of red‐tailed hawks were established in
the five boroughs.
From The New York Review of Books Copyright © 2016 by Robert O. Paxton

(1) The main function of the first paragraph (lines 1–14) is to:
(2) The passage indicates that humans introduced which of the following species of birds to New York City?
(3) What is the main point of the second paragraph (lines 15–23)?
(4) In the passage, the word thronged (line 18) most nearly emphasizes the:
(5) In the context of the passage, the statement “They roost on our roofs, nest in our eaves, and eat our trash” (lines 34–35) most nearly supports which of the following claims?
(6) In the context of the passage, the statement in lines 75–77 can best be described as a:
(7) As it relates to the passage, the graph primarily functions to:
(8) Based on the graph, which of the following statements is true for each species represented?
(9) Based on the graph, which two species are most similar in terms of range percentage across all seasons?


//source 3
Passage IV

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is from the article “Life Springs” by Martin J. Van Kranendonk, David Deamer, and Tara Djokic (©2017 by Scientific American).

The researchers, who are also the authors of the passage, are hiking back to their truck after spending the day at the Dresser Formation.

     Heading up the side of the creek embankment,
Djokic suddenly stumbles back downhill. Has she lost
her balance? To stop her from falling, Van Kranendonk
reaches out to stop her and pushes her back uphill,
(5)	which prompts a screech, something unintelligible, and
finally a sputtered cry: “Sp‐ ... p‐ ... p‐ ... pppider!”
Djokic has not stumbled at all. She is in flight mode, in
fear for her life as she tries to swat away the thick
spider web enveloping her. Spiders have a deservedly
(10)	bad reputation in Australia. In the dark, it is not a good
idea to assume that you have found the odd benign
species.
     The reason we are feeling our way around the Pil‐
bara at night is because we had spent the day enthralled
(15)	by a new discovery Djokic had made in 3.48‐billion‐
year‐old sedimentary rocks called the Dresser Forma‐
tion. Some of the rocks are wrinkled orange and white
layers, called geyserite, which were created by a volca‐
nic geyser on Earth's surface. They revealed bubbles
(20)	formed when gas was trapped in a sticky film, most
likely produced by a thin layer of bacterialike microor‐
ganisms. The surface rocks and indications of biofilms
support a new idea about one of the oldest mysteries on
the planet: how and where life got started. The evidence
(25)	pointed to volcanic hot springs and pools, on land,
about 3.5 billion years ago.
     This is a far different picture of life's origins from
the one scientists have been sketching since 1977. That
was the year the research submarine Alvin discovered
(30)	hydrothermal vents at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean
pumping out minerals containing iron and sulfur and
gases such as methane and hydrogen sulfide, sur‐
rounded by primitive bacteria and large worms. It was a
thriving ecosystem. Biologists have since theorized that
(35)	such vents, protected from the cataclysms wracking
Earth's surface about four billion years ago, could have
provided the energy, nutrients and a safe haven for life
to begin. But the theory has problems. The big one is
that the ocean has a lot of water, and in it the needed
(40)	molecules might spread out too quickly to interact and
form cell membranes and primitive metabolisms.
Now we and others believe land pools that repeat‐
edly dry out and then get wet again could be much
better places. The pools have heat to catalyze reactions,
(45)	dry spells in which complex molecules called polymers
can be formed from simpler units, wet spells that float
these polymers around, and further drying periods that
maroon them in tiny cavities where they can interact
and even become concentrated in compartments of fatty
(50)	acids—the prototypes of cell membranes.
     What Djokic found was strong geologic evidence
that the Dresser, now a dry, hot and barren outback
environment, had once been like the steaming pools and
erupting geysers of Yellowstone National Park in the
(55)	U.S., an active geothermal field. And everywhere in the
Dresser there are fossilized signs of life intimately
associated with the old hot spring system. Although the
Dresser was not the actual site where the most primitive
life began half a billion years earlier, it was showing us
(60)	that hydrothermal environments on land were present
very early in Earth's history. Charles Darwin had sug‐
gested, back in 1871, that microbial life originated in
“some warm little pond.” A number of scientists from
different fields now think that the author of On the
(65)	Origin of Species had intuitively hit on something
important. And the implications of these ideas stretch
beyond our own planet: in our search for alien life else‐
where in the solar system, a land‐based theory about
origins would guide us to different places and planets
(70)	than would an ocean‐based theory.
     Ten years before Djokic's run‐in with the spider
web, another of us (Deamer) had shown that volcanic
pools could foster the assembly of compartments made
of membranes, essential boundaries of all cellular life.

(1) The primary purpose of the passage is to:
(2) Which of the following events mentioned in the passage occurred last chronologically?
(3) Based on lines 13–26 and 71–74, what can reasonably be inferred about the relationship between Djokic's and Deamer's discoveries?
(4) Which of the following details from the passage most directly challenges the claim that life originated in the ocean?
(5) Which of the following statements best summarizes the passage's description of polymers in land pools?
(6) As it is used in line 11, the word odd most nearly means:
(7) In the passage, what evidence mentioned by the authors best supports the claim “it was a thriving ecosystem” (lines 33–34)?
(8) The passage authors include the details about Yellowstone National Park primarily to:
(9) According to the passage, establishing a land‐based theory for life's origins will likely influence future research pertaining to:

//source 4
Passage I

LITERARY NARRATIVE: Passage A is adapted from the autobiography A Peculiar Treasure by Edna Ferber (@1960 by Morris L. Ernst, et al., Trustees). Passage B is adapted from the memoir Pull Me Up: A Memoir by Dan Barry (@2004 by Dan Barry).

Passage A by Edna Ferber

     The printing shop and pressroom were separated
from the front office only by a doorway, and the door
never was closed. There were the type forms and tables,
the linotype machine (a new and fearsome invention to
(5)	me), the small press, the big newspaper press, the boiler
plate, the trays of type, all the paraphernalia that goes
to make up the heart of a small‐town newspaper. The
front room is its head, but without the back room it
could not function or even live. The linotype and the
(10)	small press went all day, for there the advertising was
set up and printed, as well as handbills, programs, all
the odds and ends classified as job printing. Mac, who
ruled this domain, was the perfect example of the fic-
tional printer. He had come in years before, his brown
(15)	hair curled over a mild brow, his limp shirt seemed
perennial. But his eye was infallible, and few if any
shrdlus and etaoins marred the fair sequence of Mac's
copy. His voice was soft, gentle, drawling, but he was
boss of the print shop from the cat to the linotype oper-
(20)	ator. Mac seldom talked but sometimes—rarely—he
appeared in the front office, a drooping figure, with a
piece of news by which he had come in some devious
way. Standing at the side of the city editor's desk he
would deliver himself of this information, looking mild
(25)	and limply romantic. It always proved to be a
bombshell.
     Such was the make‐up of the Appleton, Wiscon-
sin, Daily Crescent office.
     In the past thirty years all sorts of ex‐newspaper
(30)	men from Richard Harding Davis to Vincent Sheean
and John Gunther have written about the lure of the
reporter's life, the smell of printer's ink, the adventure
of reporting. It all sounds slightly sentimental and silly,
but it's true—or it was, at least, in my newspaper expe-
(35)	rience. To this day I can't smell the scent of white
paper, wet ink, oil, hot lead, mucilage and cats that
goes to make up the peculiar odor of any newspaper
plant, be it Appleton, Wisconsin, or Cairo, Egypt, that I
don't get a pang of nostalgia for the old reporting days.
(40)	“I was once a newspaper man myself ” has come to be
a fun phrase. But practically everyone seems to have
been, or to have wanted to be, a newspaper reporter.
Passage B by Dan Barry

     Ink. The building smelled of ink, spilled and bled.
It was a tart and chemical smell, the kind that weaves
(45)	into the fabric of your clothes and then under your skin,
the kind that comes home with you, sits with you at the
dinner table, tells you constantly what it is you do. Car
mechanics know their smell, as do fishermen and hair
stylists, nurses and short‐order cooks. You are a man
(50)	who chases halibut, a woman who perms hair. You
smell of it.
     I waded into that invisible veil of ink, inhaled it
deeply, allowed it to wash over me. It smelled of words
and phrases, rants and ideas, sports scores and felony
(55)	arrests, announcements of marriage and notices of
death. Maybe the chemical‐like aroma was inducing
hallucination, but I doubted it. In a squat concrete
building, no different from all the others in a drab Con-
necticut industrial park, I was experiencing a moment
(60)	of revelation—an epiphany, really, at the age of
twenty‐five.
     This is what I do.
     Pinned like a manifesto to a bulletin board in the
center of this ink‐perfumed building was a typewritten
(65)	note from my new employer, announcing that on this
day, October 17, 1983, I would begin working as a
reporter for a daily newspaper. The note formalized my
calling in life with a splash of perspective that would
stay with me forever:
(70)	     Dan is a former intern at the Daily News in New
York and a graduate assistant for the journalism
department at New York University. His writing has
appeared in the Daily News, the New York Times and
the Rocky Mountain News. Soon it will appear in
(75)	trashcans throughout north‐central Connecticut. Please
make him feel relevant.
     Reading the note, I thought, I'm home.
     Finding my way had not been easy. The internship
at the Daily News had ended, the graduate degree from
(80)	NYU had been shoved in a drawer, and I had returned
to living beside the sump pump in my parents' base-
ment. I spent my days splitting sod for a lawn and
sprinkling company alongside Eddie, who had taken to
calling me “Professor,” and my nights typing out pro-
(85)	fessional love letters to the New London Day, the
Asbury Park Press, the Poughkeepsie Journal, the
Stamford Advocate, the Anywhere Clarion‐Bugle‐
Star‐Record‐Sentinel, and every other Northeastern
newspaper that I had never read.

(1) It can reasonably be inferred that Passage A is narrated from the point of view of someone who:
(2) Based on Passage A, the narrator believes that, compared to what goes on in the front office, what goes on in the printing shop and pressroom is:
(3) According to the narrator of Passage A, Mac would occasionally appear in the front office in order to:
(4) What is the epiphany the narrator of Passage B experienced at the age of twenty‐five?
(5) Based on Passage B, the note that the narrator's employer wrote can best be described as:
(6) The last sentence of Passage B mainly serves to indicate that the narrator:
(7) Compared to the description of the newspaper office mentioned in Passage A, the description of the newspaper office mentioned in Passage B provides less information about the:
(8) Compared to Passage A, the style of Passage B is more strongly characterized by its use of:
(9) Based on the passages, who would be most likely to associate the smell of ink with pleasant memories?


//source 5
Passage II

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the book Lost Discoveries: The Ancient Roots of Modern Science—from the Babylonians to the Maya by Dick Teresi (@2002 by Dick Teresi).

     “In the history of culture,” wrote mathematician
Tobias Dantzig in 1930, “the discovery of zero will
always stand out as one of the greatest single achieve-
ments of the human race.” Zero, he said, marked a
(5)	“turning point” in math, science, and industry. He also
noted that the zero was invented not in the West but by
the Indians in the early centuries after Christ. Negative
numbers followed soon thereafter. The Maya invented
zero in the New World at approximately the same time.
(10)	Europe, says Dantzig, did not accept zero as a number
until the twelfth or thirteenth century.
     There are many “biographies of zero,” and
Dantzig's concise and spirited account of the birth of a
number is adequate for most of us. He sees zero's
(15)	invention appearing on an Indian's counting board in,
say, the first or second century A.D. The Indian count-
ing board had columns for the ones, tens, hundreds,
thousands, and so on. To “write” 302, for instance, a
mathematician would put a 2 in the first (right) column
(20)	and a 3 in the third, leaving the second column empty.
On one fateful day, as Dantzig sees it, an unknown
Indian drew an oval in the second column. He called it
sunya, for “empty” or “blank.” Sunyata, an important
concept in Buddhism, is often translated as “emptiness”
(25)	or “void.”
     The Arabs turned sunya into sifr (“empty” in
Arabic), which became zephirum in Italy, and eventu-
ally zero. In Germany and elsewhere, sifr became cifra,
and then, in English, cipher. In other words, it took
(30)	over a thousand years for Western civilization to accept
a number for “nothing.” Dantzig blames the Greeks.
“The concrete mind of the ancient Greeks could not
conceive the void as a number, let alone endow the void
with a symbol.”
(35)	     Zero lay rustling in the weeds for many centu-
ries before that Indian drew it on a counting board. It was
an unnamed, unwritten force. It took many more centuries
after the Indians and the Maya dared speak its name
before zero was promoted to a full‐fledged number.
(40)	     The Babylonians had no zero, but they knew
something was wrong. If they numbered the first year
of each king's reign as year 1, then added up the
number of years of each separate reign, they'd end up
with too many years unless each king died just before
(45)	midnight on New Year's Eve and his successor took the
throne after midnight. Thus, the Babylonians called a
king's first year the accession year. The following year
was year 1. The accession year was a kind of year 0.
The Babylonians, so far as we know, never articulated
(50)	zero, but seemed aware that there was a missing number
in their system.
     The contemporary mathematician who has con-
ducted the most rigorous research on nothing is Robert
Kaplan, the author of The Nothing That Is: A Natural
(55)	History of Zero. Zero turns up throughout history in
different cultures as a series of dots and circles, and
Kaplan writes of following “the swarm of dots we find
in writings from a host of languages, across great spans
of time, and on topics mathematical and otherwise.”
(60)	     Kaplan traces the roots of zero to Sumer and Bab-
ylonia. The Sumerians counted by tens and sixties, a
system adopted by the Babylonians, who eclipsed them
in Mesopotamia. The Babylonians, far ahead of the
Romans and Greeks to come, imposed a positional
(65)	notation on the old Sumerian sexagesimal system. Wri-
ting their numbers on clay, the Babylonians needed a
symbol to put in the “empty” columns, just as we today
use zero to differentiate between 302 and 32.
     Somewhere between the sixth and third centuries
(70)	B.C., the Babylonians began using two slanted tacklike
symbols to insert in the empty columns. They used their
“zero” only in the middle of numbers, never at the end.
     Kaplan argues that when Alexander invaded the
Babylonian empire in 331 B.C., he hauled off zero
(75)	along with the gold. Shortly thereafter we find the
symbol 0 for zero in the papyri of Greek astronomers,
but the mathematicians never pursued the concept.

(1) According to the passage, the Babylonian and Indian civilizations were similar in that they both:
(2) As it is presented in the second paragraph (lines 12–25), the story of an unknown person drawing an oval on a counting board is best described as:
(3) According to the passage, the Maya invented zero at about the same time as:
(4) As it is used in line 21, the phrase fateful day most nearly refers to a day that was:
(5) According to the passage, in Germany, the word for “zero” became:
(6) In the passage, Dantzig criticizes the ancient Greeks because he thinks they:
(7) The passage author most clearly indicates that he thinks his readers wouldn't be interested in hearing:
(8) The statement “Zero lay rustling in the weeds for many centuries” (line 35) most nearly means that the concept of zero:
(9) The passage author most clearly indicates that compared to other contemporary mathematicians' research on zero, Kaplan's research is more:


//source 6
Passage III

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from I'll Take You There: Mavis Staples, The Staples Singers, and the March Up Freedom's Highway by Greg Kot (@2014 by Greg Kot).

     To fans of the Staples Singers in the ‘60s, the rela-
tive anonymity of Mavis Staples was puzzling. With an
improbably deep voice bursting out of a diminutive
five‐foot frame, she projected the deepest commitment
(5)	to whatever she was singing, losing herself in every
word as though reliving a critical moment in her per-
sonal story.
     And yet she still wasn't a marquee name like
Aretha Franklin, Gladys Knight, Diana Ross, and Dusty
(10)	Springfield. Part of this was by design—Mavis enjoyed
singing with her family and preferred to melt into the
group. Even when her father brought her out front to
sing lead after her brother Pervis's voice changed in the
‘50s, she did so reluctantly. “I loved singing those bari-
(15)	tone harmonies, I always thought that was the best job
you could have,” Mavis said. She also felt a certain
comfort being guided by her father, who had essentially
taught her how and what to sing. Little had changed in
the decades since, even as it was apparent that Mavis
(20)	had star power. “Mavis was and is a quartet singer,”
says Anthony Heilbut. “From a very early age she grew
up singing harmony or singing lead in a group with four
voices and her father's guitar. She was trained to sing
with the guitar, whereas Aretha sang with the piano.
(25)	It's a very different approach.”
     Not only that, Pops's idiosyncratic guitar style
made it difficult for Mavis to easily adapt to a different
context. So, too, was the unspoken communication
between Mavis and her siblings, the way they harmo-
(30)	nized with her, even the way they clapped hands
together, a high‐speed ripple that approximated an
entire percussion section by itself. “I've been singing a
long time,” Mavis says, “and I could never find anyone
to clap like Pervis and Cleedi.”
(35)	     But Al Bell never forgot the day in Arkansas when
the teenage Mavis's voice bowled him over and left
him in tears in what was essentially a solo performance
of “On My Way to Heaven” during a Staples Singers
show.
(40)	     “In signing the Staples Singers, I thought of it as
signing three acts in one,” Bell says. “I wanted to
record Pops and Mavis as solo artists. I knew it would
add more to them from a personal appearance stand-
point, bring them a broader, more diverse audience. I
(45)	would hear Pops sitting around and just playing his
guitar at Stax Records and I thought, ‘I've got to get
this man down on tape.’ His singing, I knew there was a
lot more songs that could have been done with Pops as
a vocalist, because he was so distinctive. With Mavis I
(50)	saw no boundaries at all—I saw her walking past all of
them.”
     Steve Cropper had already won the Staples fami-
ly's trust while recording Soul Folk in Action, so Bell
had him produce what would be Mavis's self‐titled
(55)	debut album.
     “The attitude at Stax was that she's a superstar
who nobody really knows about, and we have to figure
out how to get her out there,” Cropper recalls. “But it
wasn't easy, because she puts limits on herself. There
(60)	were only certain songs she would try. Her upbringing,
her feeling about what songs would or wouldn't go
down with Pops, gave me the impression she didn't
want to go too far too fast. So I approached the whole
thing with kid gloves. I didn't want to lose her trust or
(65)	do something damaging.”
     Cropper found Pops a thoughtful and willing col-
laborator in the studio, but there was no question his
word still counted more than anyone else's in the
family, even though his children were well into adult-
(70)	hood. “Every now and then, Mavis would reference
Pops in terms of putting his foot down about dating,”
Cropper says. “There were lines he didn't want to cross
when it came to his family's well‐being, and that
included what kind of songs they would sing, what
(75)	message they would put out.”
     The guitarist knew he was running a risk present-
ing Mavis with a set of secular songs that didn't have
any of the gospel or message‐oriented underpinnings
favored by Pops and the Staples Singers. Whereas her
(80)	first attempt at cutting a solo single, a cover of “Crying
in the Chapel” for Epic Records, had some tenuous reli-
gious imagery, the tracks chosen for the Mavis Staples
solo album were the sort of pop‐oriented love and rela-
tionship songs that Pops typically shunned.
(85)	     But Mavis was hardly insulated from the pop
world as a fan and listener. She swooned over Sam
Cooke's “You Send Me” the first time she heard it, and
her cover of it on her debut album sounds wistful, as if
she were singing both to a newfound love and Cooke's
(90)	memory.

(1) The main purpose of the passage is to:
(2) It can most reasonably be inferred from the passage that Mavis Staples's relative anonymity in the ‘60s was puzzling to her fans mainly because she had a
(3) The main purpose of the third paragraph (lines 26–34) is to:
(4) The main idea of the seventh paragraph (lines 56–65) is that:
(5) Based on the passage, regarding his family, Pops Staples's attitude can best be described as:
(6) As it is used in line 5, the phrase losing herself most nearly refers to the way Mavis Staples:
(7) According to the passage, what event led directly to Mavis Staples becoming the lead singer of the Staples Singers?
(8) Based on the passage, Bell's reaction to hearing Mavis Staples's performance of “On My Way to Heaven” can most nearly be described as one of:
(9) The passage indicates that, compared to the songs traditionally chosen by the Staples Singers, the songs chosen for Mavis Staples's first solo album were:

//source 7
Passage IV

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the book Mycophilia: Revelations from the Weird World of Mushrooms by Eugenia Bone (@2011 by Eugenia Bone).

     There are a number of fungi that live in mutualist
relationships in which a balance of interests occurs
between two organisms. Lichen has a mutualistic rela-
tionship with photosynthesizing algae and bacteria.
(5)	And there are also commensal relationships, where the
fungus may not be doing the host any good or any
harm, either—the raison d'être of some yeasts in our
body, for example, is unknown and may be commensal.
But mycorrhizal fungi are the princes of mutualism.
(10)	“Fungi can't make their own food,” said Gary Lincoff.
“So they made a strategic choice to team up with
plants.”
     Ninety percent of natural land plants are thought
to have mycorrhizal fungi partners. It's a masterpiece
(15)	of evolution: Mycorrhizal fungi break down nutrients
like phosphorus, carbon, water, and nitrogen into a
readily assimilative form and deliver them to the plant
in return for sugar produced by the plant via photosyn-
thesis. The fungus needs sugar for energy and to launch
(20)	its spores, and the tree needs nutrients because (despite
what I learned in school) tree roots don't do the job
adequately. Tree roots primarily anchor the tree in the
soil. While tree roots will absorb moisture if watered
and nutrients if fertilized, it is the mycorrhizal fungus
(25)	growing on and in the tree roots that provides the tree
with the lion's share of its nutrition and water. Mycor-
rhizal fungi significantly expand the reach of plant
roots, and by extending the root system, increase the
tree's nutrient and water uptake.
(30)	     In the wild, mycorrhizal fungi are key to not just
the health of single trees but to healthy forest ecosys-
tems. A single fungal genotype or clone can colonize
the roots and maintain the nutritional requirements of
many trees at once. And multiple fungi can colonize the
(35)	roots of all or most of the trees in a forest. The hyphae,
those threadlike strings of cells that are the fungus,
function as pathways for shuttling nutrients, water, and
organic compounds around the forest. The mycologist
Paul Stamets believes that mycorrhizal fungi function
(40)	as a giant communications network between multiple
trees in a forest—he calls it “nature's Internet.” Others
have described this linkage as the “architecture of the
wood‐wide web.”
     Weaker plants are able to tap into this network,
(45)	too, like hitchhikers on a nutritional superhighway.
Young seedlings struggling to grow in the shadow of
established trees tap into the larger, older tree's fungal
network to improve their nutritional uptake. This net-
work exists to benefit not only established trees and
(50)	seedlings of the same species but also trees from differ-
ent species, and at different stages of development. So
one multitasking fungus, its hyphae attached to the
roots of multiple trees in the forest, can simultaneously
provide a different nutritional load as needed to differ-
(55)	ent trees. It's a couture service.
     The old trees in a forest function as hubs for these
mycelial networks. “Like spokes of a wheel,” said
Suzanne Simard, a professor of forestry at the University
of British Columbia who studies mycorrhizae. Rhi-
(60)	zomorphs (ropes of hyphae) connect the foundation tree
with other trees—like an express stop on a subway
system where lots of local trains come through—and
the bigger the tree, the larger the hub. That's because
the largest trees have the greatest root system, and the
(65)	more roots there are, the more real estate there is for the
fungus to colonize. “In one forest, we found 47 trees
linked by two species of fungi composed of 12 individ-
uals,” said Simard. (By individuals, she means two
genetically distinct fungal entities.) “Talk about two
(70)	degrees of separation!” Even nonphotosynthesizing
plants take advantage of “the hub.” Parasites like the
Indian pipe depend totally on mycorrhizal fungi for its
nutritive needs. It taps into the nutrients and water pro-
vided by the mycorrhizae and connects via the mycor-
(75)	rhizae to a photosynthesizing plant for sugar.
     Despite the fact that fungi are microscopic organ-
isms, the functions they perform are often on an eco-
system or landscape scale. If you could take an x‐ray
look at the soil, you'd see that underneath the forest
(80)	duff there is a layer of mycorrhizal mycelium running
between, on, and in the roots of plants. It's like a stra-
tum of life between the duff and the soil that holds
water and nutrients in the ground. And when that stra-
tum is disrupted, or not present, plants suffer. In fact,
(85)	ecosystems with inadequate mycorrhizal fungi can
experience catastrophic losses of plant biomass.

(1) The main purpose of the passage is to:
(2)The main idea of the fourth paragraph (lines 44–55) is that:
(3) The author uses the metaphor of an express stop in a subway system in order to:
(4) In the passage, the relationship between yeast and the human body is cited as an example of a:
(5) The author most likely includes the quote from Lincoff (lines 10–12) to:
(6) As it is used in line 44, the phrase tap into most nearly means:
(7) Based on the passage, young seedlings often depend on fungal networks because the seedlings are:
(8) Based on the passage, the author would most likely agree that Indian pipe's level of dependency on mycorrhizal fungi is:
(9) Which of the following statements, if true, would most weaken the claim made by the author in lines 83–86 of the passage?

//source 8
Passage I

LITERARY NARRATIVE: This passage is adapted from the novel Love Marriage by V. V. Ganeshananthan (@2008 by Vasugi Ganeshananthan).

     He met her, my mother, in New York City, and the
Heart said plaintively: Thump thump thump. That was
not the sound of illness. Theirs was an auspicious meet-
ing, although no one had troubled to check the align-
(5)	ment of the stars; the young woman was
twenty‐seven—old for a prospective bride?—but she
did not look it. She had a generous face, he said to
himself.
     He liked her glossy sheaf of dark hair, her sparse
(10)	brows, her pronounced chin, her full lower lip. She
smiled with her mouth closed because she did not like
her teeth. He could already see within the structure of
her face how she would become thinner, that her bones
would give her older face a certain elegance, a chiseled
(15)	and austere severity. He liked her precision in even the
smallest of tasks, like arranging hibiscus in a vase. Her
reserve, her inability to say anything truly personal in
public. He thought she might be full of secrets and
wanted to know them. She never raised her voice, but
(20)	she did not speak softly. How are you? That's a beauti-
ful sari. How are the children? I like this rice. She liked
her food steaming and spicy, as he did. She made her
own clothes, staying up late into the night, her foot on
the pedal of a sewing machine that had belonged to her
(25)	mother and had crossed the ocean with her. Her hem-
lines suited both the times and her young pale slimness,
which reminded him of a flowering tree by his home in
Jaffna. He never caught her admitting she was wrong;
her words clambered around that impossibility, but so
(30)	sheepishly that he found it endearing. In a noisy room
he learned to tell the clear bell sound of her bangles
apart from the rest.
     Suddenly, he was no longer thinking about widows
or about repeating his own father's collapse. It was as
(35)	though an invisible conductor was directing the pulling
of strings to draw them together. Whether it was Murali
who managed to get introduced to Vani or the other
way around, no one else really remembers. And they
will never admit which one of them was responsible.
(40)	And yet, it was this simple: a friend of his noticed that
they were staying near each other. Perhaps Murali
could give Vani a ride home? Yes, yes, two heads
nodded. They left the party they were at too quickly to
say all their good‐byes. After the door closed behind
(45)	them the space where they had been was filled with the
laughter of friends.
     He took her home. She boarded with a family in
Brooklyn. During the car ride they were silent. It was a
strange and comfortable silence for two people who had
(50)	waited for so long to be alone. The thrum of the motor
was loud because the car was old. When they turned
around the corner he pulled over and turned the engine
off and there was a quiet as loud as the motor had been.
He walked her to her door and she thanked him. She did
(55)	not ask him in for a cup of coffee; it was not her house.
But it was out of his way and both of them knew it. She
forgot that she did not like her teeth and bared them at
him. Her smile, for once, was not self‐conscious. She
watched him drive away, waving from the window.
(60)	     The Sri Lankan elders of New York City were all
too eager to play parents to the couple. She was Proper:
smart and polite and a good cook and lovely. Vani had
a job, and more important than any of these things, she
had grace, which was something that could not be
(65)	taught. Murali, of course, was the Beloved Parentless
Boy; their favorite bachelor‐doctor whom they took
into their homes and bosoms and tried to smother with
welcome and curry. Occasions were arranged; even the
very rooms seemed to conspire to make the two end up
(70)	next to each other. And then one day something was
suggested by one of those elders. And somehow the
pair of them were talking about it. To each other.
Directly.
     Which was a faux pas. But neither of them minded.
(75)	     Oceans away, families exploded. True to form, his
family's discord faded quickly. But her family almost
did not consent: afraid of the Improper, they questioned
his intentions, his failure to observe certain formalities,
his ancestry, his habits and his character. He heard
(80)	about what they had said and turned to her, his eyes full
of questions.
     They may not know these things about you, she
said, but I do.
     Are you sure? he asked her. The unsaid: they may
(85)	not forgive you for this.
     Positive, she answered. Countries away, Vani's
brother crashed into Murali's brother's house, yelling:
Who is this doctor who wants to marry my sister? Who
is this doctor who is in love with my sister?
(90)	     The nerve of Murali, they thought. In Love? These
were not words they were used to saying.

(1) The third paragraph (lines 33–46) marks a shift from the second paragraph's focus on Murali's impressions of Vani to the rest of the passage's focus on:
(2) Details in the second paragraph (lines 9–32) primarily characterize Vani as:
(3) Which of the following events mentioned in the passage occurred first chronologically?
(4) As it is presented in the passage, the italicized portion “How are you? That's a beautiful sari. How are the children? I like this rice” (lines 20–21) most likely indicates:
(5) According to the passage, one similarity between Murali and Vani is that both:
(6) In the context of the passage, the statement “And they will never admit which one of them was responsible” (lines 38–39) most strongly suggests that:
(7) In the passage, the narrator makes clear that Vani didn't ask Murali in for coffee because Vani:
(8) The passage indicates that the description of Vani in lines 61–65 most closely reflects the perspective of:
(9) As it is used in line 78, the word observe most nearly means:

//source 9
Passage II

INFORMATIONAL: Passage A is adapted from the article “Our Vanishing Night” by Verlyn Klinkenborg (@2008 by National Geographic Society, Inc.). Passage B is adapted from the book The End of Night: Searching for Natural Darkness in an Age of Artificial Light by Paul Bogard (@2013 by Paul Bogard).

Passage A by Verlyn Klinkenborg

     For most of human history, the phrase “light pollu-
tion” would have made no sense. Imagine walking
toward London on a moonlit night around 1800, when it
was Earth's most populous city. Nearly a million
(5)	people lived there, making do, as they always had, with
candles and rushlights and torches and lanterns. Only a
few houses were lit by gas, and there would be no
public gaslights in the streets or squares for another
seven years. From a few miles away, you would have
(10)	been as likely to smell London as to see its dim collec-
tive glow.
     Now most of humanity lives under intersecting
domes of reflected, refracted light, of scattering rays
from overlit cities and suburbs, from light‐flooded
(15)	highways and factories. Nearly all of nighttime Europe
is a nebula of light, as is most of the United States and
all of Japan. In the south Atlantic the glow from a
single fishing fleet—squid fishermen luring their prey
with metal halide lamps—can be seen from space, burn-
(20)	ing brighter, in fact, than Buenos Aires or Rio de
Janeiro.
     In most cities the sky looks as though it has been
emptied of stars, leaving behind a vacant haze that mir-
rors our fear of the dark. We've grown so used to this
(25)	pervasive orange haze that the original glory of an unlit
night—dark enough for the planet Venus to throw shad-
ows on Earth—is wholly beyond our experience. And
yet above the city's pale ceiling lies the rest of the uni-
verse, utterly undiminished by the light we waste—a
(30)	bright shoal of stars and planets and galaxies, shining in
seemingly infinite darkness.
     We've lit up the night as if it were an unoccupied
country, when nothing could be further from the truth.
Among mammals alone, the number of nocturnal spe-
(35)	cies is astonishing. Light is a powerful biological force,
and on many species it acts as a magnet, a process
being studied by researchers such as Travis Longcore
and Catherine Rich. The effect is so powerful that sci-
entists speak of songbirds and seabirds being “cap-
(40)	tured” by searchlights on land or by the light from gas
flares on marine oil platforms, circling and circling in
the thousands.
Passage B by Paul Bogard

     Unless Vincent Van Gogh's The Starry Night from
1889 is traveling as part of an exhibition, it hangs at
(45)	home on its wall at the Museum of Modern Art
(MoMA) in Manhattan as fifty million people pass by
every year. On a Saturday morning I stand near Van
Gogh's scene of stars and moon and sleeping town,
talking with its guardian for the day, Joseph, as he
(50)	repeats, “No flash, no flash,” “Two feet away,” and
“Too close, too close” again and again as people from
around the world crowd near. “What's the appeal of
this painting?” I ask. “It's beautiful,” he says. “What
more can you say than that?”
(55)	     You could rightly leave it at that. But I love the
story this painting tells, of a small dark town, a few
yellow‐orange gaslights in house windows, under a
giant swirling and waving blue‐green sky. This is a
painting of our world from before night had been
(60)	pushed back to the forest and the seas, from back when
sleepy towns slept without streetlights. People are too
quick, I think, to imagine the story of this painting—
and especially this sky—is simply that of “a werewolf
of energy,” as Joachim Pissarro, curator at the MoMA
(65)	exhibition Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night,
would tell me. While Van Gogh certainly had his troubles,
this painting looks as it does in part because it's of
a time that no longer exists, a time when the night sky
would have looked a lot more like this. Does Van Gogh
(70)	use his imagination? Of course, but this is an imagined
sky inspired by a real sky of a kind few of the fifty mil-
lion MoMA visitors have ever seen. It's an imagined
sky inspired by the real sky over a town much darker
than the towns we live in today. So a painting of a night
(75)	imagined? Sure. But unreal?
     In our age, yes. But Van Gogh lived in a time
before electric light. In a letter from the summer of
1888, he described what he'd seen while walking a
southern French beach:
(80)	The deep blue sky was flecked with clouds of a
blue deeper than the fundamental blue of
intense cobalt, and others of a clearer blue, like
the blue whiteness of the Milky Way. In the
blue depth the stars were sparkling, greenish,
(85)	yellow, white, pink, more brilliant, more spar-
kling gemlike than at home—even in Paris:
opals you might call them, emeralds, lapis
lazuli, rubies, sapphires.
     It's remarkable to modern eyes, first of all, that
(90)	Van Gogh would reference the stars over Paris—no one
has seen a sky remotely close to this over Paris for at
least fifty years. But stars of different colors? It's true.

(1) The main idea of the first paragraph of Passage A is that:
(2) In the third paragraph of Passage A (lines 22–31), the author makes a contrast between the:
(3) It can reasonably be inferred from Passage A that an animal “captured” by light is most nearly one that:
(4) Compared to what Joseph appreciates about The Starry Night, the author of Passage B is more appreciative of the:
(5) Based on Passage B, which of the following statements best summarizes the passage author's point about Van Gogh's use of imagination while painting Gogh's use of imagination while painting The Starry Night?
(6)  As it is used in line 91, the phrase remotely close to most nearly means:
(7) Which of the following statements best captures the main difference in the information presented in the two passages?
(8)One similarity between the passages is that, in order to make a point about light at night, both authors discuss:
(9) Compared to Passage B, Passage A offers more information about the:

//source 10 
Passage III

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the essay “On Places, Photographs, and Memory” by Chris Engman (@2012 by Chris Engman).

     Recently I visited a place that I knew intimately in
childhood, a waterfall with cliffs on both sides and a
pool of cold water below. We used to jump from those
cliffs despite our parents' concerns. I loved this place,
(5)	and revisiting it I am amazed by all that I can remem-
ber. Bends in trails, sap stains on bark, crooks in
branches, the intricate web of root structures—all are
startlingly unchanged and I remember them precisely.
A small tree is in the middle of the trail. I put my hand
(10)	on it for support and drops of moisture fall on my back
from above, and I realize: I have done this before.
Standing on a rock ledge getting ready to jump, I reach
for a handhold so I can lean over the edge and prepare
myself for what I am about to do. The shape of the rock
(15)	where my hand touches it is known to me: I have per-
formed this ritual.
     Places hold memories better than people and better
than photographs. Family, or people from our past who
may remind us of events in our lives and with whom we
(20)	may reminisce, are themselves constantly changing, as
is their version of events. Conversations with others
about shared experiences of the past can seem to aug-
ment memory but quite often they operate in the
opposite way: they alter or even replace our own
(25)	memories with those of another. Whatever the event,
one's memory of it is inevitably altered through
conversation.
     Photographs act on us in a similar fashion. What-
ever their apparent precision or correctness, photo-
(30)	graphs inaccurately reflect experience from the start.
They convert the three dimensions of space into two
and eliminate the third spatial dimension and time. Also
sacrificed are smell, touch, sound, and context. In a
word, a photograph is an abstraction of experience. Yet
(35)	we take them compulsively. We fill scrapbooks and
hard drives with family outings, vacations, and ball-
games in the hope of freezing time, making experience
tangible for future reference, preserving memory. I do
it, too. But it is well to realize that photographs do not
(40)	preserve memory, they replace memory. Just as photo-
graphs are an abstraction of experience, they are even
more so an abstraction of memory—a dangerously
compelling abstraction. Memories are fragile and
impressionable. They cannot hold up against the
(45)	seemingly irrefutable factuality of a photograph. It isn't
that what is in a photograph is false: a photograph's
version of events did happen, what is in a picture did
indeed pass before the lens. The problem is that photo-
graphs only tell such a small part of any story. And
(50)	while they may be technically correct, nonetheless they
deceive. Does a smile in a photograph mean that a
person is happy? Was the fish I caught really bigger
than my uncle's, or did I cleverly, intentionally hold
mine closer to the lens? Photographs deceive in another
(55)	respect. Whatever the event one wishes to preserve,
snapshots are most commonly a break from that event.
The moment that a photograph is taken is experienced
as a moment taking a photograph, not as a moment
engaged in the activity implied by the resulting image.
(60)	Time taken to make photographs is time subtracted
from the experience of the thing being photographed.
What photographs most accurately record, ultimately,
is nothing more than the act of photography, itself.
     To be sure, photographs can form a record of our
(65)	lives that has value. But as image‐makers and consum-
ers, which all of us are these days, there is also value to
be had in a recognition of the limits of photography to
the facility of memory—in an understanding of what
images can and cannot offer us in this regard. Moreover
(70)	it is precisely the deceitfulness of photography as it
pertains to memory that gives the medium its unique
platform to address the nature of memory itself: its mal-
leability, its unreliability, its elusiveness. It seems to
me that no conversation or photograph can make
(75)	memory so vivid or recognizable, so physically palpa-
ble, as the return to a place.

(1) The passage as a whole can best be described as:
(2) Which of the following statements best represents the passage's central claim?
(3) The author's tone when recounting his visit to the waterfall can best be described as:
(4) The main idea of the second paragraph (lines 17–27) is that:
(5) When the author states “What photographs most accurately record, ultimately, is nothing more than the act of photography, itself ” (lines 62–63), he most nearly means that:
(6) It can most reasonably be inferred that immediately after the events described in the first paragraph, the author:
(7) Which of the following details does the author use to support his claim that photographs don't accurately reflect experiences?
(8) The phrase “seemingly irrefutable factuality” (line 45) mainly serves to emphasize that photographs:
(9) As it is used in line 72, the word nature most nearly means:

//source 11
Passage IV

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the article “Reinventing the Leaf” by Antonio Regalado (@2010 by Scientific American, a division of Nature America, Inc.).

     Nathan S. Lewis has been giving a lecture on the
energy crisis that is both terrifying and exhilarating. To
avoid potentially debilitating global warming, the
chemist says civilization must be able to generate more
(5)	than 10 trillion watts of clean, carbon‐free energy by
2050. That level is three times the U.S.'s average
energy demand of 3.2 trillion watts.
     Before Lewis's crowds get too depressed, he tells
them there is one source of salvation: the sun pours
(10)	more energy onto the earth every hour than humankind
uses in a year. But to be saved, humankind needs a
radical breakthrough in solar‐fuel technology: artificial
leaves that will capture solar rays and churn out chemi-
cal fuel on the spot, much as plants do. We can burn the
(15)	fuel, as we do oil or natural gas, to power cars, create
heat or generate electricity, and we can store the fuel
for use when the sun is down.
     Lewis's lab is one of several that are crafting pro-
totype leaves, not much larger than computer chips,
(20)	designed to produce hydrogen fuel from water, rather
than the glucose fuel that natural leaves create. Unlike
fossil fuels, hydrogen burns clean. Other researchers
are working on competing ideas for capturing the sun's
energy, such as algae that has been genetically altered
(25)	to pump out biofuels, or on new biological organisms
engineered to excrete oil. All these approaches are
intended to turn sunlight into chemical energy that can
be stored, shipped and easily consumed. Lewis argues,
however, that the man‐made leaf option is the most
(30)	likely to scale up to the industrial levels needed to
power civilization.
     Although a few lab prototypes have produced
small amounts of direct solar fuel—or electrofuel, as
the chemicals are sometimes called—the technology
(35)	has to be improved so the fuel can be manufactured on
a massive scale, very inexpensively. To power the U.S.,
Lewis estimates the country would need to manufacture
thin, flexible solar‐fuel films, instead of discrete chip-
like devices, that roll off high‐speed production lines
(40)	the way newsprint does. The films would have to be as
cheap as wall‐to‐wall carpeting and eventually cover an
area the size of South Carolina.
     Far from being a wild dream, direct solar‐fuel
technology has been advancing in fits and starts ever
(45)	since President Jimmy Carter's push for alternative
energy sources during the 1970s oil shocks. Now, with
a new energy and climate crunch looming, solar fuel is
suddenly gaining attention.
     In photosynthesis, green leaves use the energy in
(50)	sunlight to rearrange the chemical bonds of water and
carbon dioxide, producing and storing fuel in the form
of sugars. “We want to make something as close to a
leaf as possible,” Lewis says, meaning devices that
work as simply, albeit producing a different chemical
(55)	output. The artificial leaf Lewis is designing requires
two principal elements: a collector that converts solar
energy (photons) into electrical energy (electrons) and
an electrolyzer that uses the electron energy to split
water into oxygen and hydrogen. A catalyst—a chemi-
(60)	cal or metal—is added to help achieve the splitting.
Existing photovoltaic cells already create electricity
from sunlight, and electrolyzers are used in various
commercial processes, so the trick is marrying the two
into cheap, efficient solar films.
(65)	     Bulky prototypes have been developed just to
demonstrate how the marriage would work. Engineers
at a Japanese automaker, for example, have built a box
that stands taller than a refrigerator and is covered with
photovoltaic cells. An electrolyzer, inside, uses the
(70)	solar electricity to break water molecules. The box
releases the resulting oxygen to the ambient air and
compresses and stores the remaining hydrogen, which
the automaker would like to use to recharge fuel‐cell
cars.
(75)	     In principle, the scheme could solve global warm-
ing: only sunlight and water are needed to create
energy, the by‐product is oxygen, and the exhaust from
burning the hydrogen later in a fuel cell is water. The
problem is that commercial solar cells contain expen-
(80)	sive silicon crystals. And electrolyzers are packed with
platinum, to date the best material for catalyzing the
water‐splitting reaction, but it costs $1,500 an ounce.
     Lewis calculates that to meet global energy
demand, future solar‐fuel devices would have to cost
(85)	less than $1 per square foot of sun‐collecting surface
and be able to convert 10 percent of that light energy
into chemical fuel. Fundamentally new, massively scal-
able technology such as films or carpets made from
inexpensive materials are needed.

(1) The main function of the seventh and eighth paragraphs (lines 65–82) is to:
(2) Based on the passage, whose opinion is it that there is a need for “more than 10 trillion watts of clean, carbon‐ free energy by 2050” (lines 4–6)?
(3) Based on the passage, what is the relationship between the “radical breakthrough” referred to in line 12 and the capabilities described in lines 14–17?
(4) According to the passage, one challenge facing Lewis in developing his energy solution is the:
(5) According to Lewis, compared to the amount of energy the sun pours onto the earth in one hour, what amount of energy does humankind use in one year?
(6) As it is used in line 25, the phrase pump out most nearly means:
(7) According to the passage, what physical form does Lewis imagine his artificial leaves will ideally take?
(8) The passage states that the two principal elements of Lewis's artificial leaf technology are:
(9) According to the passage, what is one outcome of the process of burning hydrogen in a fuel cell?


//source 12
Passage I

LITERARY NARRATIVE: Passage A is adapted from the essay “Touring Home” by Susan Power (@1996 by Susan Power). Passage B is adapted from the memoir Beyond the Narrow Gate: The Journey of Four Chinese Women from the Middle Kingdom to Middle America by Leslie Chang (@1999 by Leslie Chang).

Passage A by Susan Power

     My mother tells me stories every day: while she
cleans, while she cooks, on our way to the library,
standing in the checkout line at the supermarket. I like
to share her stories with other people and chatter away
(5)	when I am able to command adult attention.
     “She left the reservation when she was sixteen
years old,” I tell my audience. Sixteen sounds very old
to me, but I always state the number because it seems
integral to my recitation. “She had never been on a train
(10)	before or used a telephone. She left Standing Rock to
take a job in Chicago so she could help out the family
during the War. She was so petrified of the new sur-
roundings, she stayed in her seat all the way from
McLaughlin, South Dakota, to Chicago, Illinois, and
(15)	didn't move once.”
     I usually laugh after saying this because I cannot
imagine my mother being afraid of anything. She is so
tall, a true Dakota woman; she rises against the sun like
a skyscraper, and when I draw her picture in my note-
(20)	book, she takes up the entire page. She talks politics
and attends sit‐ins and says what's on her mind.
     I am her small shadow and witness. I am the timid
daughter who can rage only on paper.
     We don't have much money, but Mom takes me
(25)	from one end of the city to the other, on foot, on buses.
I will grow up believing that Chicago belongs to me,
because it was given to me by my mother.
     Some days we haunt the Art Institute, and my
mother pauses before a Picasso. “He did this during his
(30)	blue period,” she tells me.
     I squint at the blue man holding a blue guitar.
“Was he very sad?” I ask.
     “Yes, I think he was.” My mother takes my hand
and looks away from the painting. I can see a story
(35)	developing behind her eyes, and I tug on her arm to
release the words. She will tell me why Picasso was
blue, what his thoughts were as he painted this canvas.
She relates anecdotes I will never find in books, never
see footnoted in a biography of the master artist. I don't
(40)	even bother to check these references because I like my
mother's version best.
Passage B by Leslie Chang

     Water belongs to everyone and to no one. For this
reason, I have always had a particular affinity for it,
which may strike some as mysterious. Westerners ask
(45)	me where my parents were born, as though the answer
will enable them to glean some knowledge. The answer
is Beijing and Luoyang. The truth is that this response
signifies nothing. The meaningful question would be to
ask where my ancestors lived. The answer to that is
(50)	inland. My father's people came from Wuhan, birth-
place of the Chinese republic and the capital of Hubei,
that sweltering province sandwiched between Sichuan
and Anhui. My mother's father was from Inner Mongo-
lia, land of desert and grassy plains.
(55)	     Yet water calls to me. I remain convinced that I
would find peace if I could only have a house by the
ocean. I insisted on being married near the sea. This
bond, I know, comes from my mother.
     She longs for a view more than anything else.
(60)	Once, staying at a hotel in San Francisco, she insisted
on seeing three different rooms before she found one
with which she was satisfied. It was on a floor so high
it made me dizzy, with a corner window overlooking
the bay. Even so, my mother spent most of her time on
(65)	the bridge linking the elevator bank to our wing. The
bridge consisted almost entirely of windows. It offered
a view in either direction that was brilliant and blinding.
If there had been a chair, she could have sat forever,
letting the gold sun and blue sea overwhelm her through
(70)	the glass.
     My mother may have descended from inland
people, but they were also nomads. Her father once
rode his horse practically the length of China, from
Inner Mongolia to Guangzhou, a distance of some
(75)	twelve hundred miles. My mother could only become a
nomad herself—forever moving, changing and going,
yet always retaining some essential part of her being,
recognizable and intact in spite of all the places she has
been. In this, she is like water, not dead water but fear-
(80)	somely alive. When she gazes out on its shimmering
expanse, she sees her own reflection. When I gaze out,
I see her, my mother, always pulling away, returning
and pulling away again. I drink from her, and she slips
between my fingertips. She has borne me all this way. I
(85)	cannot decide whether I want her to stay or go. When
she is here, I wish she would leave. When she is gone, I
wish she would return. She pulls away again, a force as
elemental as the ebbing tide. I remain a child on the
shore, eagerly collecting the sea glass and driftwood
(90)	she has left behind.

(1) In Passage A, the narrator directly compares her mother to a:
(2) The narrator of Passage A most strongly suggests that the reason she began to believe Chicago belongs to her is that she:
(3) It can most reasonably be inferred from Passage A that the narrator doesn't bother to verify that her mother's ideas about Picasso and his work are accurate primarily because the narrator:
(4) In Passage B, the narrator most strongly suggests that she believes her answer to which of the following questions does not provide significant information about her background?
(5) As they are used in Passage B, the word blinding (line 67) and the word overwhelm (line 69) both have a connotation that most strongly suggests a feeling of:
(6) The last sentence of Passage B can best be described as a:
(7) Which of the following actions do the narrators of both passages closely connect with their mothers?
(8) The narrator of Passage B would be more likely than the narrator of Passage A to describe her relationship with her mother as being marked by:
(9) In both Passage A and Passage B, the narrator of the passage shares information about her mother's:

//source 13
Passage II

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from The Frozen‐Water Trade: A True Story by Gavin Weightman (@2003 by Gavin Weightman).

     When the first comprehensive report on the ice
industry of the United States was commissioned in
1879 as part of a national census, it was estimated that
about eight million tons were harvested annually,
(5)	though the business was so extensive and production so
poorly documented that this was, at best, a well-
informed guess. The figures were put together by one
Henry Hall, who signed himself “special agent” and
gave an account of the great growth of the industry in
(10)	the preceding ten years. Of the eight million tons of ice
harvested, about five million reached the consumer—
the rest melted during shipment and storage. By far the
biggest market was in New York, and none of its ice
was manufactured artificially: it was all cut in winter
(15)	and stored in hundreds of timber warehouses that lined
the lakes and rivers and had a capacity of up to fifty
thousand tons each. Between New York and Albany,
150 miles up the Hudson River, there were 135 ice-
houses, but even this was not enough to supply the
(20)	metropolis, which relied heavily on imports. In fact, in
the year of the great ice census, New York and Philadelphia
suffered one of their recurrent ice “famines,”
when unseasonably warm weather destroyed the harvest
on the Hudson and local lakes, and the price of ice rose
(25)	from $4 to $5 a ton. That year the ice was fifteen to
twenty inches thick in Maine, a top‐quality crop, and it
could be shipped down to New York at an estimated
cost of $1.50 a ton. This produced a frenzy of harvest-
ing on the Kennebec, Penobscot, and Sheepscot Rivers,
(30)	and two thousand cargoes of ice packed in hay and saw-
dust were shipped south to New York, Philadelphia,
and other more southern cities, where they were sold
for a total of around $1.5 million.
     Though the demand for ice rose annually, the New
(35)	York suppliers did not explore the use of artificial
refrigeration. Instead, they began to buy up sections of
the Kennebec River shoreline and to erect great wooden
warehouses there, transforming the landscape of the
river for many miles. It was the same farther inland,
(40)	where ice companies bought up shoreline along the
lakes and put up storehouses to supply the meat indus-
try of Chicago and the brewers of Milwaukee, as well
as millions of domestic consumers.
     The first real crisis in the natural‐ice trade was
(45)	caused not by competition from artificial manufacture,
but by pollution. As the cities grew, they encroached on
the rivers and lakes from which the ice was cut, and
soon there were health scares. This produced a search
for cleaner supplies away from towns, and stimulated
(50)	the search for a means of manufacturing ice with pure
water. The realization that the bacteria that cause dis-
eases such as typhoid were not killed off in frozen
water added to the urgency of finding safer forms of
refrigeration.
(55)	     The natural‐ice trade began to decline from the
early decades of the twentieth century, though in more
remote areas of North America where electric power
was not available but lake ice was abundant in winter, it
survived as late as the 1950s. As ice harvesting died
(60)	out, the evidence of its former vast scale rapidly disap-
peared. There was no alternative use for the great ice-
houses, many of which simply burned down, often set
alight by a spark from a steam train—they were surpris-
ingly flammable, as most were made of wood and kept
(65)	as dry as possible to better preserve the blocks of ice
they housed. But the majority were demolished or
simply rotted away.
     Over a wide area of the northern states, young
diving enthusiasts with no knowledge of the former ice
(70)	trade still emerge from lakes and rivers clutching an
impressive variety of odd implements—plows and chis-
els and scrapers that fell through the ice during the har-
vesting. One or two museums keep small displays of
these tools, and collectors have preserved manufactur
(75)	ers' catalogs that proudly present their versions of the
ice plow, the ice saw, the grapple, the Jack grapple, the
breaking‐off bar, the caulk bar, the packing chisel,
the house bar, the fork bar, the float hook, the line
marker, and many other specialist implements the use
(80)	of which has long been forgotten.
     The inner‐city icehouses have also gone, and the
ice wagon and the iceman are rapidly fading memories.
All that is left in America of this once‐great industry is
the water itself, which provided a continuously renew-
(85)	able supply of ice each winter. There are few memori-
als on the banks of the rivers and lakes that once
produced such a vital crop.

(1) Which of the following events referred to in the passage occurred last chronologically?
(2) The passage states that, in terms of the natural‐ice industry, the decade from 1869 to 1879 was characterized by:
(3) As it is used in lines 19–20, the phrase the metropolis most likely refers to:
(4) Based on the passage, the 1879 Maine ice that was fifteen to twenty inches thick can best be described as:
(5) The main idea of the fourth paragraph (lines 55–67) is that:
(6) The author most clearly indicates that the contents of the manufacturers' catalogs referred to in the fifth paragraph (lines 68–80) typify the natural‐ice industry's:
(7) On which of the following points does the author contradict himself elsewhere in the passage?
(8) According to the passage, in the time period referred to in the first paragraph, how much of New York City's ice was made artificially?
(9)  The passage indicates that the first real crisis in the natural‐ice industry can be attributed to:

//source 14 
Passage III

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the article “Read My Lips” by Chiara Barzini (@2012 by the Harper's Magazine Foundation).

In the passage, dubbing primarily refers to providing a film with a new soundtrack, especially dialogue in a different language.

     Filmmakers have debated the respective merits of
subtitles and dubbing since the earliest sound films. In
“The Impossible Life of Clark Costa,” published in
1940 in the film journal Cinema, director Michelangelo
(5)	Antonioni wrote that Romolo Costa, the person who
dubbed all of actor Clark Gable's performances, was a
“hybrid individual born out of a chemical combina-
tion.” This “half Clark, half Costa” was unbearable to
Antonioni, who considered dubbing to be a mere
(10)	“acoustic surrogate” of acting. To him, dubbing com-
promised the intention of the director, leading to an
artificial product that lacked artistic unity. Director Pier
Paolo Pasolini, who called both dubbing and subtitles
“evils,” said that, between the two, dubbing was the
(15)	less harmful, since it allowed you to see the picture in
full. Director Jean Renoir called dubbing a “monstros-
ity, a challenge to human and divine laws.”
     Director Federico Fellini didn't agree with any of
them. Dubbing was an extension of his shoots, a tech-
(20)	nique he would use to retouch and rewrite. He merci-
lessly dubbed over his actors, changing dialogue in
postproduction, sometimes having worked without a
script. (He reportedly instructed his actors to count
aloud in front of the camera so that he could insert new
(25)	dialogue afterward.) Renato Cortesi, a veteran Fellini
dubber, told me that, during the filming of Amarcord
(1973), he witnessed Fellini ask an old Neapolitan lady
to tell him a sad story. Over footage of this woman
recounting a tragic tale about her grandson, Fellini
(30)	added a new sound track about war and hunger recorded
by an actor from Emilia‐Romagna, combining the vivid
expressiveness of the South with his favorite northern
accent.
     If you visit a dubbing studio, the over‐the‐top zest
(35)	of the actors is evident in everything from their melo-
dramatic speech to their movements; standing in front
of the microphone, they coil and twitch. I asked Cortesi
whether this was a consequence of having to focus
one's lifelong talent into the few centimeters between
(40)	mouth and microphone, a kind of bodily rebellion to the
condition of being heard but not seen, and he laughed.
“Of course it isn't easy to spend a life in the darkness,
but this is hardly the reason why they twitch and turn!
Dubbers are used to reciting while trying to re‐create
(45)	the bodily sensations of what they see on the screen
before them. If there is running in the film, they will
run on their feet. The moving,” he explained, “is the
result of re‐creating large movements in small spaces.”
     There are still few options for those seeking to
(50)	watch subtitled, original‐language films at a movie
house in Italy. The Metropolitan cinema on Via del
Corso closed recently after a long battle involving intel-
lectuals, show‐business people, and American and
British expats in Rome, to be replaced with a clothing
(55)	store. Italians remain hooked on dubbing—perhaps
because of simple affection. Familiar voices yield emo-
tional attachment.
     Francesco Vairano, a dubber and dubbing director
known for adapting foreign films considered to be
(60)	“undubbable,” such as the French box office hit Bien-
venue chez les Ch'tis (“Welcome to the Sticks,” 2008),
which relies on linguistic misunderstandings for much
of its comedy, explained that actors become just as
attached to their parts as audiences do. Vairano has
(65)	been one of the few directors to break the habit of
matching the same Italian dubber to a foreign actor for
all his films, preferring instead to select the dubber
according to the requirements of the role, and, he
admits, he was hated by all the prima donna dubbers for
(70)	this. “If you take that actor away from them,” he told
me, “they will insult you.”
     In 2007, I met dubber Luca Ward, who provided
the voice of the narrator for a romantic comedy I
co‐wrote, Scusa ma Ti Chiamo Amore (“Sorry but I
(75)	Love You”). What I didn't then know was that every-
one Ward met wanted him to recite actor Samuel L.
Jackson's Ezekiel 25:17 passage from the film Pulp
Fiction, and that I should consider it an honor that he
would offer a performance to a stranger. When he
(80)	finally did recite the monologue, it was astonishing,
every dramatic pause carefully timed and every word
perfectly enunciated. I understood that, if anybody took
Samuel L. Jackson away from Ward, it would have
meant taking away a part of his soul; he was, as
(85)	Antonioni would say, half Ward, half Jackson. Leaving
the day's recording session, Ward told me he was off to
have dinner with actress Meg Ryan, before raising an
eyebrow and clarifying, “With Meg Ryan's dubber . . .
I am having dinner with Meg Ryan's voice.”

(1) he last sentence of the passage primarily serves to illustrate the passage author's central claim that:
(2) It can reasonably be inferred from the passage that regarding whether dubbing is useful or valuable, Vairano would most strongly sympathize with the views of:
(3) The main function of the second paragraph (lines 18–33) is for the passage author to present:
(4) The anecdote about Fellini's footage of a woman recounting a tragic tale (lines 25–33) primarily serves to:
(5) As Cortesi is presented in the passage, does he agree with the passage author's assumptions about the reason for dubbers' “over‐the‐top zest” (line 34)?
(6) It can most reasonably be inferred from the passage that the Metropolitan cinema on Via del Corso was known for showing films that had been:
(7) The passage indicates that a foreign film with which of the following characteristics is particularly difficult to dub?
(8) According to the passage, the work of dubbing director Vairano differs from that of most other Italian directors in that Vairano:
(9) As it is used in line 17, the phrase a challenge to most nearly means:

//source 15
Passage IV

INFORMATIONAL: This passage is adapted from the essay “Making Stuff: From Bacon to Bakelite” by Philip Ball (@2010 by Philip Ball).

     During the Industrial Revolution, the high price of
steel meant that many large engineering projects were
carried out that used instead cast iron, which is brittle
and prone to failure. This was why Henry Bessemer's
(5)	new process for making steel was greeted with jubila-
tion: the details, announced at a meeting of the British
Association in 1856, were published in full in The
Times. Bessemer himself was lauded not just as an
engineer but as a scientist, being elected a Fellow of the
(10)	Royal Society in 1879.
     Bessemer's process controlled the amount of
carbon mixed with iron to make steel. That the propor-
tion of carbon governs the hardness was first noted in
1774 by the Swedish metallurgist Torbern Bergmann.
(15)	Bergmann made an extensive study of the propensity of
different chemical elements to combine with one anoth-
er— a property known as elective affinity, central to the
eighteenth‐century notion of chemical reactivity.
     Oxygen, as a component of air, was the key to the
(20)	Bessemer process. It offered a way of removing impuri-
ties from pig iron and adjusting its carbon content
during conversion to steel. A blast of air through the
molten metal turned impurities such as silicon into light
silica slag (a collection of compounds removed from
(25)	metal in the smelting process), and removed carbon in
the form of volatile carbon dioxide. Pig iron contains as
much as 4 per cent carbon; steels have only around
0.3–2 per cent.
     It was long known that steel can be improved with
(30)	a spice of other elements. A dash of the metal manga-
nese helps to remove oxygen and sulphur from the iron.
Manganese also makes steel stronger, while nickel and
chromium improve its hardness. And chromium is the
key additive in stainless steel—in a proportion of more
(35)	than about 11 per cent, it makes the metal rust‐resistant.
Most modern steels are therefore alloys blended to give
the desired properties.
     But is this science? Some of the early innovations
in steel alloys were chance discoveries, often due to
(40)	impurities incorporated by accident. In this respect,
metallurgy has long retained the air of an artisan craft,
akin to the trial‐and‐error explorations of dyers, glass-
makers and potters. But the reason for this empiricism
is not that the science of metallurgy is trivial; it
(45)	is because it is so difficult. According to Rodney
Cotterill, a remarkable British physicist whose exper-
tise stretched from the sciences of materials to that
of the brain, ‘metallurgy is one of our most ancient
arts, but is often referred to as one of the youngest
(50)	sciences.’
     One of the principal difficulties in understanding
the behaviour of materials such as steel is that this
depends on its structure over a wide range of length
scales, from the packing of individual atoms to the size
(55)	and shape of grains micrometres or even millimetres in
size. Science has trouble dealing with such a span of
scales. One might regard this difficulty as akin to that
in the social sciences, where social behaviour is gov-
erned by how individuals behave but also how we inter-
(60)	act on the scale of families and neighbourhoods, within
entire cities, and at a national level.
     The mechanical properties of metals depend on
how flaws in the crystal structure, called defects, move
and interact. These defects are produced by almost
(65)	inevitable imperfections in the regular stacking of
atoms in the crystalline material. The most common
type of stacking fault is called a dislocation. Metals
bend, rather than shattering like porcelain, because dis-
locations can shift around and accommodate the defor-
(70)	mation. But if dislocations accumulate and get
entangled, restricting their ability to move, the metal
becomes brittle. Dislocations can also get trapped at the
boundaries between the fine, microscopic grains that
divide a metal into mosaics of crystallites. The arrest of
(75)	dislocations at grain edges means that metals may be
made harder by reducing the size of their grains, a
useful trick for modifying their mechanical behaviour.

(1) The main purpose of the passage is to:
(2) The author most likely includes details about the initial response to Bessemer's new steel‐making process in order to:
(3) According to the passage, which of the following conversions is a direct result of adding oxygen to molten pig iron?
(4) In the context of the passage, the main effect of the word “spice” (line 30) is to emphasize that:
(5) Based on the passage, with which of the following statements would the author most likely agree?
(6) The passage most strongly suggests that the study of the behavior of materials and the study of the social sciences are similar because they:
(7) The main idea of the last paragraph is that:
(8) As it is used in line 47, the word stretched most nearly means:
(9) According to the passage, reducing the size of a metal's grains can make the metal: